[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There's been an awful lot
of research out, the fat gene,
you know, the
non-blame hypothesis.
Most of what we're seeing
in terms of obesity,
take Britain as a classic
example, Australia also.
We see a situation where if you
go back and look at the stats
during World War II when there
was a lot of studies done
on the nation's health
back during the war,
there was simply
not the obesity.
There was not the food around.
But there wasn't the obesity.
Something clearly has happened
between World War II and 2007.
And there isn't some new gene
stalking the neighborhood.
This is because we have a
lot of highly processed foods
devoid of nutrition, empty
calories, lots of sugar.
People eat more of them.
So they're simply taking in more
energy than they're expending.
And so the body is simply taking
all this extra excess energy
and hanging it where
they put their six guns.
And so the problem here is going
to be just changing the diet,
restricting the amount of
food people are eating.
And people who are either
willing to do that or they're
not.
I mean, we get contacted by
an awful lot of teenagers
who want to get dates.
But they can't, because
they are overweight,
they don't look right.
What can I do,
anything I can do?
So I mean, when we look at
programs like Gillian McKeith's
and others.
Jamie Oliver, of
course, has been
trying to tackle a lot
of the obesity that's
going on in schools.
It's hard to do that.
There was that whole amazing
newspaper article the other day
where Jamie Oliver was
going into the schools,
the celebrity chef was
going into the schools
and trying to change these
wretched school dinners.
But some of the parents
were objecting to this.
You know, my kid needs
to have a good meal.
So they are forcing fast
food through the grills
of the gates at the school.
Until we change
attitudes, let's face it,
people are allowed to
eat what they like.
But there is a responsibility
that comes with that.
And a lot of the
political discussion
that has been banded
about has been,
well, really should
the taxpayer pay
for people who are
wanting the abusing food,
and then end up with these
problems like diabetes,
and heart, and cancer that
cost thousands to treat
in hospitals.
Is it fair that under
a tax payer system
other people should
pay for that.
I'm not here to make
that kind of judgment.
What I'm here to do is to
tell the public the great news
that if you are unhappy
with how you look,
you are the sum total of
everything you've ever
done to yourself.
So you either
change your attitude
or continue to suffer
what you must suffer.
Depression, which can be
caused by chromium deficiency.
There was a study done at the
University of North Virginia
done by Professor
Malcolm McLeod that
showed that between 25
to 42% of all depressives
are chromium
deficient in some way.
I don't read any articles
about that in the newspapers.
When you think about
the amount of depression
there is out there and the
amount of anti-depressants
that are prescribed with severe
side effects being caused
by those patients taking those.
So there are simpler
ways to do it.
As Evel Knievel said
before his abortive leap
across the Grand Canyon,
there must be an easier way.
There's been a huge
amount on fat written
about in the popular
press and a lot of studies
have been done on it.
The short version is that
there are some harmful fats.
There are some trans
fats, there are partially
hydrogenated oils that
cause tremendous problems
for the body.
A lot of these fake butters,
a lot of these fake margarines
that are put onto
the market can create
problems have been linked,
these types of hydrogenated oils
have been linked to macular
degeneration and problems
with eyesight.
There are clearly
the trans fats that
can create all
kinds of problems,
and we've read an
awful lot about those.
Then we have the healthy
fats, the so-called omegas,
which are contained in
a lot of these foods
that we've been talking about,
which should be consumed.
Two fish dinners a
week are advised.
There's been a recent warning
on the amount of methyl mercury
in fish, which is hitting
certain areas of the planet
quite strongly.
Several researchers
go quite hard on this
and say you shouldn't
eat fish anymore.
I'm not quite there yet.
I think that fish
needs to be cold caught
and deep so that we can
get natural fish which
will have the minimum of
this type of contamination.
But fish is great.
Things like flax and
hemp oils are great,
which mimic these types of oil,
which are these types of oils
as well.
And just generally eating a
lot of good healthy foods,
we'll cover the basics.
When we look at hyperactive
kids for instance
where we see an
inability for these kids
to be able to manufacture
prostaglandins which
are chemical mood modulators.
Then very often just spreading
some evening primrose
oil on their body
or just getting
them to take cod liver oil and
various of these omega sources
can straighten the problem out.
We've had tremendous
testimonies over the years
with uncontrollable kids
ripping classrooms apart.
And then the parents will
change their diets out,
and then the teachers
will go, never
have we seen such amazing
changes in children.
What have you done, put
them in straight jackets?
I wish.
But we see that
just simply, again,
dietary changes will win
through and will help
people to overcome problems.
I mean, how much better is
that than drugging them up
on these things like
Ritalin and Prozac.
We have over 8 million
kids apparently in America
drugged up every day
before they go to school.
And these types of drugs
can produce some severe side
effects, homicidal
rages, grabbing the Uzi
and climbing the clock tower.
You know we've looked
at these school
shootings and the implications
of a lot of these drugs
in these shootings.
And you know, how much easier
it is for the school just
to be able to feed these
pupils correctly to begin with,
if they're boarding, or
the parents to send them
to school with some
decent food in their bag.
Let's go back to basics.
You are what you eat.
Who really believes that?
Who believes that angel mood?
Valentine's Day depends on it.
You know, let me
have a look at this,
and we see people just
eating a lot of sugary foods
and then they're climbing the
walls and getting violent.
I mean, they did
studies in the prison.
In fact, Stephen Shaw, I think
was the researcher in America,
went into American prisons,
rounded up a test group,
I believe somewhere a couple
of thousand, 3,000 maybe,
and changed their diets out.
And changed their diets out,
gave them some supplementation,
changed their diets out.
In other words, what
he wanted to see
was, and these were the
criminals beating up
other criminals, these
were the violent ones.
What he wanted to find
out was whether there
was a correlation between
diet and violent behavior.
And this is the case.
How many people
believe that if they're
watching bad news on
the TV all day long,
they're not going
to get depressed?
That what we focus on
becomes our reality.
If you are watching these
news programs all day long,
then is that going to
affect your mental attitude?
Of course it's going to do that.
I tried to get everybody to go
through tomorrow's newspaper
with a red pen, put a big red
X next to every single article
that is bad news.
And when you're done
that, do all the programs,
Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Murder
She Wrote, Midsummer's Murder,
Murder With Frost,
Murder in Suburbia,
Dead Like Us, Cult
of the Coffin.
You're looking at these
programs all the time.
Now go back through the same
newspaper with a blue pen
and put a big blue X next
to every single article that
is absolutely none
of your business.
And what you realize
is you're looking
at a whole bunch of bad news
every day, none of which
has anything to do
with you at all.
And the rest of
it is the weather.
And you know how
they lie about that.
And what are you eating?
What is your whole life story?
What is your environment?
There are people who are
depressed for good reason.
You know, they're
not making ends meet.
But the answer to a
financial problem is what?
Money.
It's not Prozac, it's
not an antidepressant.
The answer to a
financial problem
is to reduce your expenses
and increase your income,
preferably at the same time.
So when we look at
depression, it's
a multifactorial
exercise with depression.
There are a number of things
that can cause depression.
It can be chemical.
A lot of it can be social.
We look at problems with
electromagnetic frequency
stress, people
living around pylons,
people living within 200
meters of a mobile phone mast.
The lies that were banded
about by the telecommunications
industry when they were
busy putting a mobile phone
mast on every treetop and
every hillside around Britain.
We're unconscionable,
the idea that this thing
wasn't going to hurt people.
But it's causing all kinds of
problems with people's attitude
with memory recall,
things like that.
Cancer, again, has been
traced back to this.
We've done a lot of publishing
over the years on depression,
looking at other
aspects of hormones,
looking at a lot of
the work that people
like Patrick Halford
have done over the years.
Depression being linked
into certain irregularities
in the body, which can be
corrected with nutrition.
So it's a very
interesting subject.
But I like starting on the
easy end of it and working in.
In other words, if
somebody is depressed,
let's see if we
can find out why.
I mean, let's look at
their life for a start
and see if there's
anything there
where there is a
legitimate cause for why
they would be depressed.
I get interested when I find
people who are depressed
and there's no obvious reason
why that should be the case.
And then we look at Professor
Malcolm MacLeod's studies
on chromium
deficiency, which can
cause that and several
others of these [INAUDIBLE]..
[MUSIC PLAYING]